.START 

Pierre Vinken, 61 years old, will join the board as a nonexecutive director Nov. 29.
Mr. Vinken is chairman of Elsevier N.V., the Dutch publishing group. 

Rudolph Agnew, 55 years old and former chairman of Consolidated Gold Fields PLC, was named a nonexecutive director of this British industrial conglomerate. 

J.P. Bolduc, vice chairman of W.R. Grace & Co., which holds a 83.4% interest in this energy-services company, was elected a director.
He succeeds Terrence D. Daniels, formerly a W.R. Grace vice chairman, who resigned.
W.R. Grace holds three of Grace Energy's seven board seats. 


Pacific First Financial Corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by Royal Trustco Ltd. of Toronto for $27 a share, or $212 million. 

The thrift holding company said it expects to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end. 


McDermott International Inc. said its Babcock & Wilcox unit completed the sale of its Bailey Controls Operations to Finmeccanica S.p.
A. for $295 million. 

Finmeccanica is an Italian state-owned holding company with interests in the mechanical engineering industry. 

Bailey Controls, based in Wickliffe, Ohio, makes computerized industrial controls systems.
It employs 2,700 people and has annual revenue of about $370 million. 


The federal government suspended sales of U.S. savings bonds because Congress hasn't lifted the ceiling on government debt. 

Until Congress acts, the government hasn't any authority to issue new debt obligations of any kind, the Treasury said. 

The government's borrowing authority dropped at midnight Tuesday to $2.80 trillion from $2.87 trillion.
Legislation to lift the debt ceiling is ensnarled in the fight over cutting capital-gains taxes. 

The House has voted to raise the ceiling to $3.1 trillion, but the Senate isn't expected to act until next week at the earliest.
The Treasury said the U.S. will default on Nov. 9 if Congress doesn't act by then. 

South Korea registered a trade deficit of $101 million in October, reflecting the country's economic sluggishness, according to government figures released Wednesday. 

Preliminary tallies by the Trade and Industry Ministry showed another trade deficit in October, the fifth monthly setback this year, casting a cloud on South Korea's export-oriented economy. 

Exports in October stood at $5.29 billion, a mere 0.7% increase from a year earlier, while imports increased sharply to $5.39 billion, up 20% from last October. 

South Korea's economic boom, which began in 1986, stopped this year because of prolonged labor disputes, trade conflicts and sluggish exports.
Government officials said exports at the end of the year would remain under a government target of $68 billion. 

Despite the gloomy forecast, South Korea has recorded a trade surplus of $71 million so far this year. 

From January to October, the nation's accumulated exports increased 4% from the same period last year to $50.45 billion.
Imports were at $50.38 billion, up 19%. 

Texas Instruments Japan Ltd., a unit of Texas Instruments Inc., said it opened a plant in South Korea to manufacture control devices. 

The new plant, located in Chinchon about 60 miles from Seoul, will help meet increasing and diversifying demand for control products in South Korea, the company said. 

The plant will produce control devices used in motor vehicles and household appliances. 

John R. Stevens, 49 years old, was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer, both new positions.
He will continue to report to Donald Pardus, president and chief executive officer.
Mr. Stevens was executive vice president of this electric-utility holding company.
Arthur A. Hatch, 59, was named executive vice president of the company.
He was previously president of the company's Eastern Edison Co. unit.
John D. Carney, 45, was named to succeed Mr. Hatch as president of Eastern Edison.
Previously he was vice president of Eastern Edison.
Robert P. Tassinari, 63, was named senior vice president of Eastern Utilities.
He was previously vice president. 

F.H. Faulding & Co., an Australian pharmaceuticals company, said its Moleculon Inc. affiliate acquired Kalipharma Inc. for $23 million. 

Kalipharma is a New Jersey-based pharmaceuticals concern that sells products under the Purepac label. 

Faulding said it owns 33% of Moleculon's voting stock and has an agreement to acquire an additional 19%.
That stake, together with its convertible preferred stock holdings, gives Faulding the right to increase its interest to 70% of Moleculon's voting stock. 

Oil production from Australia's Bass Strait fields will be raised by 11,000 barrels a day to about 321,000 barrels with the launch of the Whiting field, the first of five small fields scheduled to be brought into production before the end of 1990. 

Esso Australia Ltd., a unit of New York-based Exxon Corp., and Broken Hill Pty. operate the fields in a joint venture. 

Esso said the Whiting field started production Tuesday.
Output will be gradually increased until it reaches about 11,000 barrels a day.
The field has reserves of 21 million barrels.
Reserves for the five new fields total 50 million barrels. 

The Perch and Dolphin fields are expected to start producing early next year, and the Seahorse and Tarwhine fields later next year.
Esso said the fields were developed after the Australian government decided in 1987 to make the first 30 million barrels from new fields free of excise tax. 

R.P. Scherer Corp. said it completed the $10.2 million sale of its Southern Optical subsidiary to a group led by the unit's president, Thomas R. Sloan, and other managers. 

Following the acquisition of R.P. Scherer by a buy-out group led by Shearson Lehman Hutton earlier this year, the maker of gelatin capsules decided to divest itself of certain of its non-encapsulating businesses.
The sale of Southern Optical is a part of the program. 

Lord Chilver, 63-year-old chairman of English China Clays PLC, was named a nonexecutive director of this British chemical company. 

James L. Pate, 54-year-old executive vice president, was named a director of this oil concern, expanding the board to 14 members. 

A form of asbestos once used to make Kent cigarette filters has caused a high percentage of cancer deaths among a group of workers exposed to it more than 30 years ago, researchers reported. 

The asbestos fiber, crocidolite, is unusually resilient once it enters the lungs, with even brief exposures to it causing symptoms that show up decades later, researchers said.
Lorillard Inc., the unit of New York-based Loews Corp. that makes Kent cigarettes, stopped using crocidolite in its Micronite cigarette filters in 1956. 

Although preliminary findings were reported more than a year ago, the latest results appear in today's New England Journal of Medicine, a forum likely to bring new attention to the problem. 

A Lorillard spokewoman said, "This is an old story.
We're talking about years ago before anyone heard of asbestos having any questionable properties.
There is no asbestos in our products now." 

Neither Lorillard nor the researchers who studied the workers were aware of any research on smokers of the Kent cigarettes.

"We have no useful information on whether users are at risk," said James A. Talcott of Boston's Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
Dr. Talcott led a team of researchers from the National Cancer Institute and the medical schools of Harvard University and Boston University. 

The Lorillard spokeswoman said asbestos was used in "very modest amounts" in making paper for the filters in the early 1950s and replaced with a different type of filter in 1956.
From 1953 to 1955, 9.8 billion Kent cigarettes with the filters were sold, the company said. 

Among 33 men who worked closely with the substance, 28 have died -- more than three times the expected number.
Four of the five surviving workers have asbestos-related diseases, including three with recently diagnosed cancer.
The total of 18 deaths from malignant mesothelioma, lung cancer and asbestosis was far higher than expected, the researchers said. 

"The morbidity rate is a striking finding among those of us who study asbestos-related diseases," said Dr. Talcott. 

The percentage of lung cancer deaths among the workers at the West Groton, Mass., paper factory appears to be the highest for any asbestos workers studied in Western industrialized countries, he said.
The plant, which is owned by Hollingsworth & Vose Co., was under contract with Lorillard to make the cigarette filters. 

The finding probably will support those who argue that the U.S. should regulate the class of asbestos including crocidolite more stringently than the common kind of asbestos, chrysotile, found in most schools and other buildings, Dr. Talcott said. 

The U.S. is one of the few industrialized nations that doesn't have a higher standard of regulation for the smooth, needle-like fibers such as crocidolite that are classified as amphobiles, according to Brooke T. Mossman, a professor of pathlogy at the University of Vermont College of Medicine.
More common chrysotile fibers are curly and are more easily rejected by the body, Dr. Mossman explained. 

In July, the Environmental Protection Agency imposed a gradual ban on virtually all uses of asbestos.
By 1997, almost all remaining uses of cancer-causing asbestos will be outlawed. 

About 160 workers at a factory that made paper for the Kent filters were exposed to asbestos in the 1950s.
Areas of the factory were particularly dusty where the crocidolite was used.
Workers dumped large burlap sacks of the imported material into a huge bin, poured in cotton and acetate fibers and mechanically mixed the dry fibers in a process used to make filters.
Workers described "clouds of blue dust" that hung over parts of the factory, even though exhaust fans ventilated the area. 

"There's no question that some of those workers and managers contracted asbestos-related diseases," said Darrell Phillips, vice president of human resources for Hollingsworth & Vose. "But you have to recognize that these events took place 35 years ago.
It has no bearing on our work force today." 

Yields on money-market mutual funds continued to slide, amid signs that portfolio managers expect further declines in interest rates. 

The average seven-day compound yield of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report eased a fraction of a percentage point to 8.45% from 8.47% for the week ended Tuesday.
Compound yields assume reinvestment of dividends and that the current yield continues for a year. 

Average maturity of the funds' investments lengthened by a day to 41 days, the longest since early August, according to Donoghue's.
Longer maturities are thought to indicate declining interest rates because they permit portfolio managers to retain relatively higher rates for a longer period.
Shorter maturities are considered a sign of rising rates because portfolio managers can capture higher rates sooner. 

The average maturity for funds open only to institutions, considered by some to be a stronger indicator because those managers watch the market closely, reached a high point for the year -- 33 days. 

Nevertheless, said Brenda Malizia Negus, editor of Money Fund Report, yields "may blip up again before they blip down" because of recent rises in short-term interest rates.
The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction, for example, rose to 8.04% from 7.90%. 

Despite recent declines in yields, investors continue to pour cash into money funds.
Assets of the 400 taxable funds grew by $1.5 billion during the latest week, to $352.7 billion. 

Typically, money-fund yields beat comparable short-term investments because portfolio managers can vary maturities and go after the highest rates.
The top money funds are currently yielding well over 9%.
Dreyfus World-Wide Dollar, the top-yielding fund, had a seven-day compound yield of 9.37% during the latest week, down from 9.45% a week earlier.
It invests heavily in dollar-denominated securities overseas and is currently waiving management fees, which boosts its yield.
The average seven-day simple yield of the 400 funds was 8.12%, down from 8.14%.
The 30-day simple yield fell to an average 8.19% from 8.22%; the 30-day compound yield slid to an average 8.53% from 8.56%. 

When it's time for their biannual powwow, the nation's manufacturing titans typically jet off to the sunny confines of resort towns like Boca Raton and Hot Springs. 

Not this year. 

The National Association of Manufacturers settled on the Hoosier capital of Indianapolis for its fall board meeting.
And the city decided to treat its guests more like royalty or rock stars than factory owners.
The idea, of course: to prove to 125 corporate decision makers that the buckle on the Rust Belt isn't so rusty after all, that it's a good place for a company to expand. 

On the receiving end of the message were officials from giants like Du Pont and Maytag, along with lesser knowns like Trojan Steel and the Valley Queen Cheese Factory. 

For starters, the executives joined Mayor William H. Hudnut III for an evening of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra and a guest pianist-comedian Victor Borge.
Champagne and dessert followed. 

The next morning, with a police escort, busloads of executives and their wives raced to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, unimpeded by traffic or red lights.
The governor couldn't make it, so the lieutenant governor welcomed the special guests.
A buffet breakfast was held in the museum, where food and drinks are banned to everyday visitors.
Then, in the guests' honor, the speedway hauled out four drivers, crews and even the official Indianapolis 500 announcer for a 10-lap exhibition race. 

After the race, Fortune 500 executives drooled like schoolboys over the cars and drivers.
No dummies, the drivers pointed out they still had space on their machines for another sponsor's name or two. 

Back downtown, the execs squeezed in a few meetings at the hotel before boarding the buses again.
This time, it was for dinner and dancing -- a block away. 

Under the stars and moons of the renovated Indiana Roof ballroom, nine of the hottest chefs in town fed them Indiana duckling mousseline, lobster consomme, veal mignon and chocolate terrine with a raspberry sauce.
Knowing a tasty -- and free -- meal when they eat one, the executives gave the chefs a standing ovation. 

More than a few CEOs say the red-carpet treatment tempts them to return to a heartland city for future meetings.
But for now, they're looking forward to their winter meeting -- Boca in February. 

Newsweek, trying to keep pace with rival Time magazine, announced new advertising rates for 1990 and said it will introduce a new incentive plan for advertisers. 

The new ad plan from Newsweek, a unit of the Washington Post Co., is the second incentive plan the magazine has offered advertisers in three years.
Plans that give advertisers discounts for maintaining or increasing ad spending have become permanent fixtures at the news weeklies and underscore the fierce competition between Newsweek, Time Warner Inc. 's Time magazine, and Mortimer B. Zuckerman's U.S. News & World Report. 

Alan Spoon, recently named Newsweek president, said Newsweek's ad rates would increase 5% in January.
A full, four-color page in Newsweek will cost $100,980.
In mid-October, Time magazine lowered its guaranteed circulation rate base for 1990 while not increasing ad page rates; with a lower circulation base, Time's ad rate will be effectively 7.5% higher per subscriber; a full page in Time costs about $120,000.
U.S. News has yet to announce its 1990 ad rates. 

Newsweek said it will introduce the Circulation Credit Plan, which awards space credits to advertisers on "renewal advertising."

Mr. Spoon said the plan is not an attempt to shore up a decline in ad pages in the first nine months of 1989; Newsweek's ad pages totaled 1,620, a drop of 3.2% from last year, according to Publishers Information Bureau. "What matters is what advertisers are paying per page, and in that department we are doing fine this fall," said Mr. Spoon. 

Both Newsweek and U.S. News have been gaining circulation in recent years without heavy use of electronic giveaways to subscribers, such as telephones or watches.
However, none of the big three weeklies recorded circulation gains recently.
According to Audit Bureau of Circulations, Time, the largest newsweekly, had average circulation of 4,393,237, a decrease of 7.3%.
Newsweek's circulation for the first six months of 1989 was 3,288,453, flat from the same period last year.
U.S. News' circulation in the same time was 2,303,328, down 2.6%. 

New England Electric System bowed out of the bidding for Public Service Co. of New Hampshire, saying that the risks were too high and the potential payoff too far in the future to justify a higher offer. 

The move leaves United Illuminating Co. and Northeast Utilities as the remaining outside bidders for PS of New Hampshire, which also has proposed an internal reorganization plan in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings under which it would remain an independent company. 

New England Electric, based in Westborough, Mass., had offered $2 billion to acquire PS of New Hampshire, well below the $2.29 billion value United Illuminating places on its bid and the $2.25 billion Northeast says its bid is worth.
United Illuminating is based in New Haven, Conn., and Northeast is based in Hartford, Conn.
PS of New Hampshire, Manchester, N.H., values its internal reorganization plan at about $2.2 billion. 

John Rowe, president and chief executive officer of New England Electric, said the company's return on equity could suffer if it made a higher bid and its forecasts related to PS of New Hampshire -- such as growth in electricity demand and improved operating efficiencies -- didn't come true. "When we evaluated raising our bid, the risks seemed substantial and persistent over the next five years, and the rewards seemed a long way out.
That got hard to take," he added. 

Mr. Rowe also noted that political concerns also worried New England Electric.
No matter who owns PS of New Hampshire, after it emerges from bankruptcy proceedings its rates will be among the highest in the nation, he said. "That attracts attention. It was just another one of the risk factors" that led to the company's decision to withdraw from the bidding, he added. 

Wilbur Ross Jr. of Rothschild Inc., the financial adviser to the troubled company's equity holders, said the withdrawal of New England Electric might speed up the reorganization process.
The fact that New England proposed lower rate increases -- 4.8% over seven years against around 5.5% boosts proposed by the other two outside bidders -- complicated negotiations with state officials, Mr. Ross asserted. "Now the field is less cluttered," he added. 

Separately, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission turned down for now a request by Northeast seeking approval of its possible purchase of PS of New Hampshire.
Northeast said it would refile its request and still hopes for an expedited review by the FERC so that it could complete the purchase by next summer if its bid is the one approved by the bankruptcy court. 

PS of New Hampshire shares closed yesterday at $3.75, off 25 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

Norman Ricken, 52 years old and former president and chief operating officer of Toys "R" Us Inc., and Frederick Deane Jr., 63, chairman of Signet Banking Corp., were elected directors of this consumer electronics and appliances retailing chain.
They succeed Daniel M. Rexinger, retired Circuit City executive vice president, and Robert R. Glauber, U.S. Treasury undersecretary, on the 12-member board. 

